the thing you notice above all about the
Greeks is their absolute passion for
life and it's never more apparent than
Easter here on the small aegean island
of alonissos the whole population comes
together the midnight mass and to
celebrate Christo's Anesti christ is
risen it launches a weekend of feasting
music dancing but above all eating
there's an official start to the
barbecue season that this is it it's a
real community activity it's all
happening here as friends and families
gather for alfresco a penny airy to me
and you that's festival
you know Easter just wouldn't be easy to
increase without the wonderful aromas of
spit roasted land filling the air they
cook these for about three hours at
first they take some lemon juice and
squeezed it onto the meat fresh thyme
salt and pepper and slowly it's cooked
until it's beautiful and tender and it's
not just meet other Easter specialities
include a pie filled with wild spring
greens and feta cheese flavored with
dill or fennel to greens or halter as
they're called can include spinach
dandelion leaves sorrel and rocket no
two pies are ever the same as each cook
gathers their own ingredients from
surrounding hills and fields cooked over
an open fire it's surely the perfect
picnic food mmm babita quite superb
layers of phyllo pastry with greens and
cheese it ain't a good air artery
there's a fascinating history behind a
lot of dishes and that a wireless and
romance behind the origins of a modern
favorite clef Tico the name comes from
clef des members of the Greek Resistance
who fought the Turks in the 19th century
concealed in Hillside hideout they
cooked their lamb and the hot embers of
underground fire loosely covered with
soil so that the smell of cooking meat
and smoke wouldn't give them away
nowadays cleft cows cooked in
traditional clay ovens but i'm going to
show you an easy way to cook it on the
barbie first take some lamb cut into
chunks and place into a large bowl pour
over some delicious Greek olive oil and
squeezing the juice of one small limb
finely chop some fresh oregano and thyme
and sprinkle liberally until meat
next add some crushed garlic and give it
a good oldest
and finally a generous ceasing of salt
and freshly ground black pepper and if
you have the time and allow it to
marinate for an hour my place a portion
of the meat on a large square of extra
thick foil sprinkle on some chopped
fresh tomato seeds and skin at top with
a slice or two of cathal o teri cheese
pecorino is a good substitute or if you
like English goat cheddar finish with a
bay leaf scrunch your foil to seal your
parcels and place directly onto medium
hot coals for about 40 minutes when your
parcels are nearly ready score sand pit
a break and grill until golden brown of
both sides
spoon overs not garlic and parsley
butter and briefly warm through for a
minute or so and slice and fingers and
serve as our cleft eco parcels
absolutely delicious
and to follow here's an utterly
scrumptious idea for a PUD using figs
honey Greek yogurt and almonds
when your figs are juicy and tender
after about 15 minutes spoon over some
creamy Greek yogurt and sprinkle over
the toasted almonds and serve
immediately
who'da thought of serving yogurt instead
of double cream with a pudding a few
years ago well that is for the good old
Greek yogurt revolution it's thick rich
and creamy not like that thin low-fat
stuff which was all used to get when you
be milking sheep or your life like
Katina who lives in the village of
steady valor persuading reluctant sheet
to cooperate is par for the course
you're coming in now at name but if your
names Harriet not Harriet I think that
easy hold of it come here not there for
a cup of coffee thankfully Katinas
effort rewarded with enough milk for her
to make me some of her legendary yogurt
now if you really got nothing else to do
and your fancy having a go it's quite a
simple process first bring the milk to
the boil then simmer for about 30
minutes you can use sheep's milk cows or
goats milk that's totally left up to you
now to make yogurt you need a little bit
of old yogurt called the starter dilute
it with a little bit of warm milk and
added to your dish cover and leave it in
a warm place for a few hours and then
it's ready if only lay at the time
like you master the old be oh thank you
katrina mm-hmm no steam or that's the
look delicious delicious yogurt is the
basis for the delicious and healthy dips
Satsuki which goes beautifully with
barbecued meat then with the support of
the garlic garlic kohlrabi gourmet lugo
a neato anito in anglica you say till
you keep this skin on the cucumber for
looking color
prepare member
squeezing out all the water after the
cucumber see that's why yours is so
running make sure you take out all that
juice suggesting you grate the garlic
huh
oh and I that was the secret a little
bit of oil and a touch of vinegar makes
all the difference to your sexy
neato neato oh so easy Katinas easy
Satsuki oh hey good there very good mmm
olives have been cultivated for more
than 3,000 years for centuries the fruit
they bear has provided one of the purest
foods of all time good old olive oil
it's the prime reason why the Greeks do
so well in the good health stakes
nowadays with so many varieties in our
supermarket we're simply spot for choice
but the best without doubt is the
cold-pressed extra virgin it's like
buying a good vintage wine these trees
aren't in fruit yet but come November
they'll be grooming under the sheer
weight of juicy delicious fat black
olives and boy do they taste good you
might not find these particular ones in
your supermarket but the choice is
improving all the time from a crinkly
brush ripe ones to smooth crunchy green
earth absolutely my favorite and as for
olive oil it's the stable ingredient for
most Greek dishes and if you're planning
to cook any of these recipes on this
program you'd better rush out and get a
bottle now Toronto
use it to make a classic Greek marinade
to 4 tablespoons of olive oil add the
finely chopped zest and juice of 1 lemon
2 cloves of crushed garlic and 2
tablespoons of chopped fresh oregano or
time finally add 1 teaspoon of honey and
season with salt freshly ground black
pepper mixed together and users required
lamb chicken or if you'd like
the Greeks love their barbecued meats
souvlaki spit roast but they also adore
their favorite vegetable the incredible
versatile or machine now just to show
you how incredibly versatile the
aubergine is I'm going to do you two
recipes on the barbecue one is stuffed
with feta rolls and cheese and tomato
quite delightful and a beautiful
aubergine dip I've played a few fork
holes at the stand there to stop it
popping when it's on the barbecue want
to keep it on there about 20 or 30
minutes until the skin starts to blister
pop those off now my slice is here it's
in you can see that i haven't sliced
that too thickly there so they cook
quite quickly there they are I'm just
going to lay those on the board before
they went on to the BBQ I brush them
with a beautiful flavored oil Greek
extra virgin olive oils in there some
lemon zest grated very very finely in a
clove of crushed garlic just mix that
around and brush them on top on to the
BBQ now first I'm going to put a slice
of tomato on top of our aubergine you
can use plum tomatoes if you wanted to
instead and next a slice of feta cheese
you can get this so easy in your
supermarkets now of course if you wanted
to a good alternative be mozzarella and
now for some basil this is Greek basil
we're so used to the larger leaf variety
but here it just don't seem to use in
cooking very much it's more used as a
fragrance in their gardens but it's
absolutely delicious and it tastes
exactly the same sprinkle some of those
on top as the setter
beautiful and we're going to top that
with some sun-dried tomatoes not
particularly popular in Greece sun-dried
tomatoes you probably can't even get
them here but we've got about own so we
could use them that's it lovely and a
bit of black pepper going on top now you
don't need to put salt on these have you
got the saltiness coming from the feta
cheese and of course from your sun-dried
tomatoes then I want you to take the end
and just fold those over join those with
a cocktail stick which is not imperative
but of course you'd have to be very very
careful when you turn them over on the
barbecue and you just pop those on the
edge of your barbecue there those nice
sort of medium to hot coals we're really
just warming that flew to release some
of those wonderful flavors and that's
only going to take about two or three
minutes including the turning and now on
to our aubergine dip look at that it's
been blisters as I said just going to
split that open and reveal that juicy
flesh inside absolutely lovely that's it
Maya nice wooden pestle and mortar here
it's going to pick that up and scrape
that into the pot there you can see a
few of those little black bits might go
you can pull those out but it all adds
to all the sort of flavor and everything
and that we're going to add juice half a
lemon
and we drizzle in some virgin olive oil
said lovely a clove of crushed garlic
it'll pinch their of ground cumin Lee
said teaspoon of chopped parsley and a
tablespoon of Katinas beautiful creamy
Greek yogurt now that is optional but it
does give it a wonderful creamy taste
give that a bit of a mix oh just turn
over those feta rolls so you really
don't take long at all Lee
of course some salt and of course some
freshly ground black pepper Oh can't
beat it give that a good mix in there
now.let seasoning binding those flavors
I'm so often at home the Tama startled
the who is it the one that you go out
and buy and out here in Greece this
aubergine dip really is very very
popular and I'm not surprised because
the taste is they certainly know what
they're talking about lovely mmm now
better rules here what a lovely
appetizer
you know I think the water surrounding
Alana sets are the most beautiful I've
ever seen no wonder the whole areas of
national marine park
I was lucky enough to enjoy a spot of
the old sightseeing in the company of
local fishermen my maintenance de mattos
the waters are very very rich is that
important to the economy of the island
next to it they're fitting is the most
important industry
haven't we actually talking about how
much money do you get out of this every
year oh it could be a hand at medium
that one oh that's 30 quid that's a lot
it's good
by travelpod member
see Marty's was right these waters
really are full of beautiful seafood
just like this squid now this squid here
is absolutely fresh it just smells of
the sea and if it smells to fishing it
means that it's beginning to turn a
little bit so be aware of that now I'm
going to do your beautiful char grilled
squid stuffed with rice mint and spinach
really taste magnificent and serving it
the delightful sweet and sour tomato
sauce and what I want you to do is to
take a knife and just spore it slightly
just run it across the skin like that
just piercing it ever so slightly then
turn around and do the same in the
opposite direction you'll probably have
difficulty getting hold this in the
supermarket but I do know that they sell
them frozen in these kind of tubes ready
cleaned in a chinese supermarket and
hoarse from fish mongers and fish
markets now once you've done that we're
going to be flying off our onions and
garlic to make up our source and of
course to make our wonderful stuffing
got my pan here he took up a nice hot
temperature over hot coals so you really
want to pay attention to that probably
takes about 40 minutes to get to that
stage drizzle some oil inside that's it
chopped onion sprinkle that in lovely
fizzle away my darling and a horse one
clove of garlic just slide that garlic
in there like that that's it
now toss those around a little bit
that's beautiful that's it you have to
cook you don't want to overcook them you
just want to let them bleed a little bit
look caramelized just on the edges and
that'd be absolutely perfect and go to
take half of that into a bowl and the
other half I'll keep for my sauce now my
saucepan here I've got some wilted down
speed is a little bit of oil turn up my
spinach just let it cook down about
three or four minutes and that is
absolutely perfect there we're going to
take that and pop that into our Bowl
that's perfect I've got about three
ounces of cooked rice we're just going
to sprinkle that inside okay you're
gonna cook some rice just cook it
refresh it under cold water if it's
still a little bit starchy just a little
oil in there that will separate all the
grains okay bit of lemon juice just
going to squeeze that lemon juice on top
lovely I've also got here some nice
fresh mint just going to chop that fresh
mint up
pick it up pop that on top for our rice
and spinach just sprinkle that in some
pepper just give that a good mix really
mix that in well once you've given that
stuffing good mix then we stuff at el
squid it's a little bit difficult
opening up this pocket so in a spoon
that it fits inside there if not if you
like me use your fingers because I like
to use my fingers and really pick that
up and just false it all the way to the
bottom of the tube and so it really
forced that in that's lovely you
probably noticed sometimes at the slits
we cut just a little bit too deep and
the stuffing starts to poke a bird don't
let that put you off really it's just to
give it a nice effect when it goes on to
the coals finally get a cocktail stick
once again it's been soaked so it
doesn't burn on the coals and just try
and prick that through to kind of lock
up the end there take a little bit of
time just to twist that in and that's
lovely that's beautiful once again touch
little pepper
a little bit more salt it's going to
drizzle on a little bit more oil
drizzling of oil that's it just rub it
in there pop that on to your Barbie
perfect
remember you don't need to cook this too
long five or six minutes just rotate it
around until it gets that lovely
charcoaled color on it you cook it too
long it's going to get rubbery so to
avoid that keep the cooking down okay
now back to our sauce onions and the
garlic cooked down there in the olive
oil it's going to sprinkle half a
teaspoon of sugar in there that's its
let that caramelize a little bit and
here I've got some civ tomatoes you can
use a tin of tomatoes if you want it to
pour those in of course you've got some
ripe tomatoes there have been hanging
around chop those up and put them in and
the rest of the lemon juice get that a
good squeeze that's lovely okay now just
allow that to cook down simmer down a
little bit and then some chopped parsley
let's pick it up there here we are just
chopped it up and so this is flat leaf
parsley if you got curly parsley not a
problem to take that sprinkle that in
into our source there that's it which is
all just a little bit more oil inside
that's beautiful
a little bit more pepper and touch more
salt and just lets blend that into a
source beautiful cook down with iron
cook down look at that squid their role
that over oh that lovely Brown child
kaldi color there you can see that but
golden brown color there doesn't that
look beautiful and it tastes good too
stamatis this is the local skirt that
I've stuffed I want you to taste it in
to you think or just get it in your
mouth that's it delicious exhalation
excellent are there returning the
hospitality to de mattos invited me for
a drink down that is local
spiros uzuri no wooden Airy local this
you certainly can't get a quick bite and
pork scratchings no sir
the local brew sapporo is a wicked
version of ouzo so with each bottle
spira sends you out at different
barbecue appetizer a mezzo to soak it
all up and boy does it needs soaking and
after a few rounds is lucky that someone
else is doing the choosing for you but
it's a great way of making new friends
you get married hey congratulations
thank you is it will be a pleasure your
mouse yes your like again the next day
after righteous steak night and I threw
myself into yet more merry making our
knickers don't look too bad on two hours
Kip busy anyway the greek wedding is
definitely a test of stamina nikos and
his bride Afeni sia having survived the
traditional shower of rice and almonds
and kissing all 1000 Islanders had to
brace themselves for a six-hour dance
marathon before being allowed even have
a little middle of their own wedding
breakfast
hey
as a wedding gift I decided to make one
rich creamy and very romantic dessert to
follow their traditional meal of
first spoon some apricot compote into
base for small dish top with creamy
Greek yogurt and spread evenly to cover
the pump up
Oh
add at liberal sprinkling sugar and
caramelize using special glue layer
believe me if you like a dramatic impact
it's well worth shopping around for and
the smell is evidently
and leave to cool a few minutes before
something
and to complement the pudding a
perfectly romantic drink for the
newlyweds they sent le cur puffit and
war perfect and tapas and champagne and
served in sugar frosted glasses Yama
join me next week for more sizzling
ideas from South Africa
you